on October 7th Hamas terrorists used
body cams and cell phones and posted
footage of their atrocities on Tik Tok X
and Facebook experts say their intention
was maximum
provocation if there's a strategy and I
don't have a doubt that there is a
strategy is is threefold number one show
we don't have any limits you need to be
really shocked you need to be feel
terrorized and that's exactly what
what's Terror all about Weeks Later
leading Hamas members told the New York
Times what the aim of filming and
streaming their attacks
was Hamas the Kasam and the resistance
woke the world up from its deep sleep
and showed that this issue must remain
on the table I hope that the state of
war with Israel will become permanent on
all the borders and that the Arab world
will stand with
us when Israel launched its military
campaign against Hamas terrorists it's
killed thousands of Palestinian
civilians in the
process the public perception of the
conflict shifted images of the victims
in Gaza dominated social
media posts like these caused shock they
also led to hundreds of angry comments
and therefore were rewarded by the
platform's algorithms and gained even
more
reach many of the elderly that we've
seen that's exactly what Hamas also does
on the one hand strengths Terror on the
other hand and a drogy of victimization
of their own population which cynically
is used by Hamas the Israeli Army claims
that Hamas Fighters have hidden command
centers and hospitals in the Gaza Strip
I want you to understand as proof it has
published this video of what they say is
the basement under the rantis
hospital in the however Hamas officials
and Hospital staff deny the existence of
such centers they accuse Israel of
targeting hospitals and committing
genocide in
[Music]
Gaza for social media users both
narratives are difficult to verify from
the
outside however they are spread
widely this is playing a key role in the
demonstrations around the world easily
stoked emotion has led to
outrage and in some cases CS for riots
and attacks on Jewish
institutions supporters of both sides
have taken to the street worldwide with
social media creating Echo Chambers the
narratives from both sides are
furthering The Divide between supporters
of Palestinians and
Israel thisinformation and fakes have
also played a role in this propaganda
War when Israel's prime minister
Benjamin Netanyahu published a photo of
a dead baby on NEX saying it was killed
during the massacre some social media
users as well as the Arabic broadcaster
Al jazer claimed that the photo was an
AI fake based on this picture of a puppy
a later analysis with an image forensics
tool showed that the puppy photo was in
fact a fake but false claims are coming
from both sides in this conflict when a
rocket hit parts of the Al Ali Hospital
in Gaza on October 17th the Israeli
influencer hananya naftali initially
wrote that the Army had struck a hidden
terrorist base but the Israeli
government then said that the misfired
rocket from the Palestinian Islamic
Jihad militant group was responsible for
the incident but facts experts say are
no longer needed to discredit an
opponent
online indeed you need to create at
least doubt if those emotional
videos address already existing
prejudices and and already existing
emotions they work very well fakes
rumors and misinformation like the false
claim that an Israeli helicopter shot
the Nova Festival goers are often
believed by social media users they are
simply too much content and sources for
people to check everything they
see never trust one single Source even
if it's as credible as possible don't
trust anything which is immediately
drastic and emotional always try to get
a second opinion Instagram Tik Tok X and
other platforms have become political
battle arenas especially in terms of
narratives imagine being a refugee in
your own country spending your entire
life in a cage being able to assess
content on social media and putting it
into context is now more important than
ever especially since not just
governments but also Terror groups like
Hamas are exploiting the potential of
social
media